CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to cuML

If you are interested in contributing to cuML, your contributions will fall
into three categories:
1. You want to report a bug, feature request, or documentation issue
    - File an [issue](https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/issues/new/choose)
    describing what you encountered or what you want to see changed.
    - The RAPIDS team will evaluate the issues and triage them, scheduling
    them for a release. If you believe the issue needs priority attention
    comment on the issue to notify the team.
2. You want to propose a new Feature and implement it
    - Post about your intended feature, and we shall discuss the design and
    implementation.
    - Once we agree that the plan looks good, go ahead and implement it, using
    the [code contributions](#code-contributions) guide below.
3. You want to implement a feature or bug-fix for an outstanding issue
    - Follow the [code contributions](#code-contributions) guide below.
    - If you need more context on a particular issue, please ask and we shall
    provide.

## Code contributions

### Your first issue

1. Read the project's [README.md](https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/blob/master/README.md)
    to learn how to setup the development environment
2. Find an issue to work on. The best way is to look for the [good first issue](https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22)
    or [help wanted](https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22) labels
3. Comment on the issue saying you are going to work on it
4. Code! Make sure to update unit tests!
5. When done, [create your pull request](https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/compare)
6. Verify that CI passes all [status checks](https://help.github.com/articles/about-status-checks/). Fix if needed
7. Wait for other developers to review your code and update code as needed
8. Once reviewed and approved, a RAPIDS developer will merge your pull request

Remember, if you are unsure about anything, don't hesitate to comment on issues
and ask for clarifications!

### Seasoned developers

Once you have gotten your feet wet and are more comfortable with the code, you
can look at the prioritized issues of our next release in our [project boards](https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/projects).

> **Pro Tip:** Always look at the release board with the highest number for
issues to work on. This is where RAPIDS developers also focus their efforts.

Look at the unassigned issues, and find an issue you are comfortable with
contributing to. Start with _Step 3_ from above, commenting on the issue to let
others know you are working on it. If you have any questions related to the
implementation of the issue, ask them in the issue instead of the PR.

## Attribution
Portions adopted from https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md

Commit message:

Fixed typo in DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md and added cross reference to CONTRIBUTING.md

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to cuML

If you are interested in contributing to cuML, your contributions will fall
into three categories:
1. You want to report a bug, feature request, or documentation issue
    - File an [issue](https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/issues/new/choose)
    describing what you encountered or what you want to see changed.
    - The RAPIDS team will evaluate the issues and triage them, scheduling
    them for a release. If you believe the issue needs priority attention
    comment on the issue to notify the team.
2. You want to propose a new Feature and implement it
    - Post about your intended feature, and we shall discuss the design and
    implementation.
    - Once we agree that the plan looks good, go ahead and implement it, using
    the [code contributions](#code-contributions) guide below.
3. You want to implement a feature or bug-fix for an outstanding issue
    - Follow the [code contributions](#code-contributions) guide below.
    - If you need more context on a particular issue, please ask and we shall
    provide.

## Code contributions

### Your first issue

1. Read the project's [README.md](https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/blob/master/README.md)
    to learn how to setup the development environment
2. Find an issue to work on. The best way is to look for the [good first issue](https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22)
    or [help wanted](https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22) labels
3. Comment on the issue saying you are going to work on it
4. Get familar with the developer guide relevant for you:
 * For C++ developers it is avaiable here [DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md](https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/blob/master/cuML/DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md)
5. Code! Make sure to update unit tests!
6. When done, [create your pull request](https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/compare)
7. Verify that CI passes all [status checks](https://help.github.com/articles/about-status-checks/). Fix if needed
8. Wait for other developers to review your code and update code as needed
9. Once reviewed and approved, a RAPIDS developer will merge your pull request

Remember, if you are unsure about anything, don't hesitate to comment on issues
and ask for clarifications!

### Seasoned developers

Once you have gotten your feet wet and are more comfortable with the code, you
can look at the prioritized issues of our next release in our [project boards](https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/projects).

> **Pro Tip:** Always look at the release board with the highest number for
issues to work on. This is where RAPIDS developers also focus their efforts.

Look at the unassigned issues, and find an issue you are comfortable with
contributing to. Start with _Step 3_ from above, commenting on the issue to let
others know you are working on it. If you have any questions related to the
implementation of the issue, ask them in the issue instead of the PR.

## Attribution
Portions adopted from https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
