cpp/DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md, before:

# cuML developer guide
This document summarizes rules and best practices for contributions to the cuML C++ component of rapidsai/cuml. This is a living document and contributions for clarifications or fixes and issue reports are highly welcome.

## General
Please start by reading [CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Thread safety

With the exception of the cumlHandle, cuML algorithms should maintain thread-safety and are, in general, 
assumed to be single threaded. They should be able to be called from multiple host threads so long as
different handles are used.

Exceptions are made for algorithms that can take advantage of multiple CUDA streams in order to oversubscribe 
or increase occupancy on a single GPU. In these cases, the use of multiple host threads within cuML algorithms
should be used only to maintain concurrency of the underlying CUDA streams. Multiple host threads should be 
used sparingly, be bounded, and should steer clear from performing CPU-intensive computations.


## Public cuML interface
### Terminology
We have the following supported APIs:
1. Core cuML interface aka stateless C++ API aka C++ API aka `libcuml++.so`
2. Stateful convenience C++ API - wrapper around core API (WIP)
3. C API - wrapper around core API aka `libcuml.so`

### Motivation
Our C++ API is stateless for two main reasons:
1. To ease the serialization of ML algorithm's state information (model, hyper-params, etc), enabling features such as easy pickling in the python layer.
2. To easily provide a proper C API for interfacing with languages that can't consume C++ APIs  directly.

Thus, this section lays out guidelines for managing state along the API of cuML.

### General guideline
As mentioned before, functions exposed via the C++ API must be stateless. Things that are OK to be exposed on the interface:
1. Any [POD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Passive_data_structure) - see [std::is_pod](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/types/is_pod) as a reference for C++11  POD types.
2. `cumlHandle` - since it stores GPU-related state which has nothing to do with the model/algo state. If you're working on a C-binding, use `cumlHandle_t`([reference](src/cuML_api.h)), instead.
3. Pointers to POD types (explicitly putting it out, even though it can be considered as a POD).
Internal to the C++ API, these stateless functions are free to use their own temporary classes, as long as they are not exposed on the interface.

### Stateless C++ API
Using the Decision Tree Classifier algorithm as an example, the following way of exposing its API would be wrong according to the guidelines in this section, since it exposes a non-POD C++ class object in the C++ API:
```cpp
template <typename T>
class DecisionTreeClassifier {
  TreeNode<T>* root;
  DTParams params;
  const cumlHandle &handle;
public:
  DecisionTreeClassifier(const cumlHandle &handle, DTParams& params, bool verbose=false);
  void fit(const T *input, int n_rows, int n_cols, const int *labels);
  void predict(const T *input, int n_rows, int n_cols, int *predictions);
};

void decisionTreeClassifierFit(const cumlHandle &handle, const float *input, int n_rows, int n_cols,
                               const int *labels, DecisionTreeClassifier<float> *model, DTParams params,
                               bool verbose=false);
void decisionTreeClassifierPredict(const cumlHandle &handle, const float* input,
                                   DecisionTreeClassifier<float> *model, int n_rows,
                                   int n_cols, int* predictions, bool verbose=false);
```

An alternative correct way to expose this could be:
```cpp
// NOTE: this example assumes that TreeNode and DTParams are the model/state that need to be stored
// and passed between fit and predict methods
template <typename T> struct TreeNode { /* nested tree-like data structure, but written as a POD! */ };
struct DTParams { /* hyper-params for building DT */ };
typedef TreeNode<float> TreeNodeF;
typedef TreeNode<double> TreeNodeD;

void decisionTreeClassifierFit(const cumlHandle &handle, const float *input, int n_rows, int n_cols,
                               const int *labels, TreeNodeF *&root, DTParams params,
                               bool verbose=false);
void decisionTreeClassifierPredict(const cumlHandle &handle, const double* input, int n_rows,
                                   int n_cols, const TreeNodeD *root, int* predictions,
                                   bool verbose=false);
```
The above example understates the complexity involved with exposing a tree-like data structure across the interface! However, this example should be simple enough to drive the point across.

### Other functions on state
These guidelines also mean that it is the responsibility of C++ API to expose methods to load and store (aka marshalling) such a data structure. Further continuing the Decision Tree Classifier example,  the following methods could achieve this:
```cpp
void storeTree(const TreeNodeF *root, std::ostream &os);
void storeTree(const TreeNodeD *root, std::ostream &os);
void loadTree(TreeNodeF *&root, std::istream &is);
void loadTree(TreeNodeD *&root, std::istream &is);
```
It is also worth noting that for algorithms such as the members of GLM, where models consist of an array of weights and are therefore easy to manipulate directly by the users, such custom load/store methods might not be explicitly needed.

### C API
Following the guidelines outlined above will ease the process of "C-wrapping" the C++ API. Refer to [DBSCAN](src/dbscan/dbscan_api.h) as an example on how to properly wrap the C++ API with a C-binding. In short:
1. Use only C compatible types or objects that can be passed as opaque handles (like `cumlHandle_t`).
2. Using templates is fine if those can be instantiated from a specialized C++ function with `extern "C"` linkage.
3. Expose custom create/load/store/destroy methods, if the model is more complex than an array of parameters (eg: Random Forest). One possible way of working with such exposed states from the C++ layer is shown in a sample repo [here](https://github.com/teju85/managing-state-cuml).

### Stateful C++ API
This scikit-learn-esq C++ API should always be a wrapper around the stateless C++ API, NEVER the other way around. The design discussion about the right way to expose such a wrapper around `libcuml++.so` is [still going on](https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/issues/456)  So, stay tuned for more details.

### File naming convention
1. An ML algorithm `<algo>` is to be contained inside the folder named `src/<algo>`.
2. `<algo>.hpp` and `<algo>.[cpp|cu]` contain C++ API declarations and definitions respectively.
3. `<algo>_api.h` and `<algo>_api.cpp` contain declarations and definitions respectively for C binding.

## Coding style

## Code format
### Introduction
cuML relies on `clang-format` to enforce code style across all C++ and CUDA source code. The coding style is based on the [Google style guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Formatting). The only digressions from this style are the following.
1. Do not split empty functions/records/namespaces.
2. Two-space indentation everywhere, including the line continuations.
3. Disable reflowing of comments.
The reasons behind these deviations from the Google style guide are given in comments [here](./.clang-format).

### How is the check done?
[run-clang-format.py](scripts/run-clang-format.py) is run first by `make`. This script runs clang-format only on modified files. An error is raised if the code diverges from the format suggested by clang-format, and the build fails.

### How to know the formatting violations?
When there are formatting errors, `run-clang-format.py` prints a `diff` command, showing where there are formatting differences. Unfortunately, unlike `flake8`, `clang-format` does NOT print descriptions of the violations, but instead directly formats the code. So, the only way currently to know why there are formatting differences is to run the diff command as suggested by this script against each violating source file.

### How to fix the formatting violations?
When there are formatting violations, `run-clang-format.py` prints an `-inplace` command you can use to automatically fix formatting errors. This is the easiest way to fix formatting errors. [This screencast](https://asciinema.org/a/248215) shows a typical build-fix-build cycle during cuML development.

### clang-format version?
To avoid spurious code style violations we specify the exact clang-format version required, currently `8.0.0`. This is enforced by a CMake check for the required version. [See here for more details on the dependencies](./README.md#dependencies).

## Error handling
Call CUDA APIs via the provided helper macros `CUDA_CHECK`, `CUBLAS_CHECK` and `CUSOLVER_CHECK`. These macros take care of checking the return values of the used API calls and generate an exception when the command is not successful. If you need to avoid an exception, e.g. inside a destructor, use `CUDA_CHECK_NO_THROW`, `CUBLAS_CHECK_NO_THROW ` and `CUSOLVER_CHECK_NO_THROW ` (currently not available, see https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/issues/229). These macros log the error but do not throw an exception.

## Logging
Add once https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/issues/100 is addressed.

## Documentation
All external interfaces need to have a complete [doxygen](http://www.doxygen.nl) API documentation. This is also recommended for internal interfaces.

## Testing and Unit Testing
TODO: Add this

## Device and Host memory allocations
To enable `libcuml.so` users to control how memory for temporary data is allocated, allocate device memory using the allocator provided:
```cpp
template<typename T>
void foo(const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h, cudaStream_t stream, ... )
{
    T* temp_h = h.getDeviceAllocator()->allocate(n*sizeof(T), stream);
    ...
    h.getDeviceAllocator()->deallocate(temp_h, n*sizeof(T), stream);
}
```
The same rule applies to larger amounts of host heap memory:
```cpp
template<typename T>
void foo(const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h, cudaStream_t stream, ... )
{
    T* temp_h = h.getHostAllocator()->allocate(n*sizeof(T), stream);
    ...
    h.getHostAllocator()->deallocate(temp_h, n*sizeof(T), stream);
}
```
Small host memory heap allocations, e.g. as internally done by STL containers, are fine, e.g. an `std::vector` managing only a handful of integers.
Both the Host and the Device Allocators might allow asynchronous stream ordered allocation and deallocation. This can provide significant performance benefits so a stream always needs to be specified when allocating or deallocating (see [Asynchronous operations and stream ordering](#asynchronous-operations-and-stream-ordering)). `ML::deviceAllocator` returns pinned device memory on the current device, while `ML::hostAllocator` returns host memory. A user of cuML can write customized allocators and pass them into cuML. If a cuML user does not provide custom allocators default allocators will be used. For `ML::deviceAllocator` the default is to use `cudaMalloc`/`cudaFree`. For `ML::hostAllocator` the default is to use `cudaMallocHost`/`cudaFreeHost`.
There are two simple container classes compatible with the allocator interface `MLCommon::device_buffer` available in `ml-prims/src/common/device_buffer.hpp` and `MLCommon::host_buffer` available in `ml-prims/src/common/host_buffer.hpp`. These allow to follow the [RAII idiom](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resource_acquisition_is_initialization) to avoid resources leaks and enable exception safe code. These containers also allow asynchronous allocation and deallocation using the `resize` and `release` member functions:
```cpp
template<typename T>
void foo(const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h, ..., cudaStream_t stream )
{
    ...
    MLCommon::device_buffer<T> temp( h.getDeviceAllocator(), stream, 0 )
    
    temp.resize(n, stream);
    kernelA<<<grid, block, 0, stream>>>(..., temp.data(), ...);
    kernelB<<<grid, block, 0, stream>>>(..., temp.data(), ...);
    temp.release(stream);
}
```
The motivation for `MLCommon::host_buffer` and `MLCommon::device_buffer` over using `std::vector` or `thrust::device_vector` (which would require thrust 1.9.4 or later) is to enable exception safe asynchronous allocation and deallocation following stream semantics with an explicit interface while avoiding the overhead of implicitly initializing the underlying allocation.
To use `ML::hostAllocator` with a STL container the header `src/common/allocatorAdapter.hpp` provides `ML::stdAllocatorAdapter`:
```cpp
template<typename T>
void foo(const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h, ..., cudaStream_t stream )
{
    ...
    std::vector<T,ML::stdAllocatorAdapter<T> > temp( n, val, ML::stdAllocatorAdapter<T>(h.getHostAllocator(), stream) )
    ...
}
```
If thrust 1.9.4 or later is avaiable for use in cuML a similar allocator can be provided for `thrust::device_vector`.

### <a name="allocationsthrust"></a>Using Thrust
To ensure that thrust algorithms allocate temporary memory via the provided device memory allocator, use the `ML::thrustAllocatorAdapter` available in `src/common/allocatorAdapter.hpp` with the `thrust::cuda::par` execution policy:
```cpp
void foo(const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h, ..., cudaStream_t stream )
{
    ML::thrustAllocatorAdapter alloc( h.getDeviceAllocator(), stream );
    auto execution_policy = thrust::cuda::par(alloc).on(stream);
    thrust::for_each(execution_policy, ... );
}
```
The header `src/common/allocatorAdapter.hpp` also provides a helper function to create an execution policy:
```cpp
void foo(const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h, ... , cudaStream_t stream )
{
    auto execution_policy = ML::thrust_exec_policy(h.getDeviceAllocator(),stream);
    thrust::for_each(execution_policy->on(stream), ... );
}
```

## Asynchronous operations and stream ordering
All ML algorithms should be as asynchronous as possible avoiding the use of the default stream (aka as NULL or `0` stream). Implementations that require only one CUDA Stream should use the stream from `ML::cumlHandle_impl`:
```cpp
void foo(const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h, ...)
{
    cudaStream_t stream = h.getStream();
}
```
When multiple streams are needed, e.g. to manage a pipeline, use the internal streams available in `ML::cumlHandle_impl` (see [CUDA Resources](#cuda-resources)). If multiple streams are used all operations still must be ordered according to `ML::cumlHandle::getStream()`. Before any operation in any of the internal CUDA streams is started, all previous work in `ML::cumlHandle::getStream()` must have completed. Any work enqueued in `ML::cumlHandle::getStream()` after a cuML function returns should not start before all work enqueued in the internal streams has completed. E.g. if a cuML algorithm is called like this: 
```cpp
void foo(const double* const srcdata, double* const result)
{
    ML::cumlHandle cumlHandle;

    cudaStream_t stream;
    CUDA_RT_CALL( cudaStreamCreate( &stream ) );
    cumlHandle.setStream( stream );

    ...

    CUDA_CHECK( cudaMemcpyAsync( srcdata, h_srcdata.data(), n*sizeof(double), cudaMemcpyHostToDevice, stream ) );

    ML::algo(cumlHandle, dopredict, srcdata, result, ... );

    CUDA_CHECK( cudaMemcpyAsync( h_result.data(), result, m*sizeof(int), cudaMemcpyDeviceToHost, stream ) );

    ...
}
```
No work in any stream should start in `ML::algo` before the `cudaMemcpyAsync` in `stream` launched before the call to `ML::algo` is done. And all work in all streams used in `ML::algo` should be done before the `cudaMemcpyAsync` in `stream` launched after the call to `ML::algo` starts.

This can be ensured by introducing interstream dependencies with CUDA events and `cudaStreamWaitEvent`. For convenience, the header `cumlHandle.hpp` provides the class `ML::detail::streamSyncer` which lets all `ML::cumlHandle_impl` internal CUDA streams wait on `ML::cumlHandle::getStream()` in its constructor and in its destructor and lets `ML::cumlHandle::getStream()` wait on all work enqueued in the `ML::cumlHandle_impl` internal CUDA streams. The intended use would be to create a `ML::detail::streamSyncer` object as the first thing in a entry function of the public cuML API: 

```cpp
void cumlAlgo(const ML::cumlHandle& handle, ...)
{
    ML::detail::streamSyncer _(handle.getImpl());
}
```
This ensures the stream ordering behavior described above.

### Using Thrust
To ensure that thrust algorithms are executed in the intended stream the `thrust::cuda::par` execution policy should be used (see [Using Thrust](#allocationsthrust) in [Device and Host memory allocations](#device-and-host-memory-allocations)).

## CUDA Resources

Do not create reusable CUDA resources directly in implementations of ML algorithms. Instead, use the existing resources in `ML::cumlHandle_impl` to avoid constant creation and deletion of reusable resources such as CUDA streams, CUDA events or library handles. Please file a feature request if a resource handle is missing in `ML::cumlHandle_impl `.
The resources can be obtained like this
```cpp
void foo(const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h, ...)
{
    cublasHandle_t cublasHandle = h.getCublasHandle();
    const int num_streams       = h.getNumInternalStreams();
    const int stream_idx        = ...
    cudaStream_t stream         = h.getInternalStream(stream_idx);
    ...
}
```

### `ML::cumlHandle` and `ML::cumlHandle_impl`

The purpose of `ML::cumlHandle` is to be the public interface of cuML, i.e. it is meant to be used by developers using cuML in their application. This is differentiated from `ML::cumlHandle_impl` to avoid that the public interface of cuML depends on cuML internals, such as CUDA library handles, e.g. for cuBLAS. This is implemented via the "Pointer to implementation" or [pImpl](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/pimpl) idiom. From a `ML::cumlHandle` the implementation `ML::cumlHandle_impl` can be obtained by calling `ML::cumlHandle::getImpl()`. The implementation of cuML should use `ML::cumlHandle_impl` and not `ML::cumlHandle`. E.g. for the function `ml_algo` from the public cuML interface an implementation calling the internal functions `foo` and `bar` could look like this:

```cpp
void ml_algo(const ML::cumlHandle& handle, ...)
{
    const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h = handle.getImpl();
    ML::detail::streamSyncer _(h);
    ...
    foo(h, ...);
    ...
    bar(h, ...);
    ...
}
```

## Multi GPU

The multi GPU paradigm of cuML is **O**ne **P**rocess per **G**PU (OPG). Each algorithm should be implemented in a way that it can run with a single GPU without any dependencies to any communication library. A multi GPU implementation can assume the following:
* The user of cuML has initialized MPI and created a communicator that can be used by the ML algorithm.
* All processes in the MPI communicator call into the ML algorithm cooperatively.
* The used MPI is CUDA-aware, i.e. it is possible to directly pass device pointers to MPI

Commit message:

Including blog article as an example of using host threads for streams. Mentioning openMP

cpp/DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md, after:

# cuML developer guide
This document summarizes rules and best practices for contributions to the cuML C++ component of rapidsai/cuml. This is a living document and contributions for clarifications or fixes and issue reports are highly welcome.

## General
Please start by reading [CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Thread safety

With the exception of the cumlHandle, cuML algorithms should maintain thread-safety and are, in general, 
assumed to be single threaded. They should be able to be called from multiple host threads so long as
different handles are used.

Exceptions are made for algorithms that can take advantage of multiple CUDA streams in order to oversubscribe 
or increase occupancy on a single GPU. In these cases, the use of multiple host threads within cuML algorithms
should be used only to maintain concurrency of the underlying CUDA streams. Multiple host threads should be 
used sparingly, be bounded, and should steer clear from performing CPU-intensive computations.

A good example of an acceptable use of host threads can be found in [this blog article](https://devblogs.nvidia.com/gpu-pro-tip-cuda-7-streams-simplify-concurrency/)

cuML's build enables openMP by default, cuML algorithms should still function properly even when openMP has been
disabled. For this reason, it would be better to utilize openMP rather than raw pthreads for spawning host threads. 

## Public cuML interface
### Terminology
We have the following supported APIs:
1. Core cuML interface aka stateless C++ API aka C++ API aka `libcuml++.so`
2. Stateful convenience C++ API - wrapper around core API (WIP)
3. C API - wrapper around core API aka `libcuml.so`

### Motivation
Our C++ API is stateless for two main reasons:
1. To ease the serialization of ML algorithm's state information (model, hyper-params, etc), enabling features such as easy pickling in the python layer.
2. To easily provide a proper C API for interfacing with languages that can't consume C++ APIs  directly.

Thus, this section lays out guidelines for managing state along the API of cuML.

### General guideline
As mentioned before, functions exposed via the C++ API must be stateless. Things that are OK to be exposed on the interface:
1. Any [POD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Passive_data_structure) - see [std::is_pod](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/types/is_pod) as a reference for C++11  POD types.
2. `cumlHandle` - since it stores GPU-related state which has nothing to do with the model/algo state. If you're working on a C-binding, use `cumlHandle_t`([reference](src/cuML_api.h)), instead.
3. Pointers to POD types (explicitly putting it out, even though it can be considered as a POD).
Internal to the C++ API, these stateless functions are free to use their own temporary classes, as long as they are not exposed on the interface.

### Stateless C++ API
Using the Decision Tree Classifier algorithm as an example, the following way of exposing its API would be wrong according to the guidelines in this section, since it exposes a non-POD C++ class object in the C++ API:
```cpp
template <typename T>
class DecisionTreeClassifier {
  TreeNode<T>* root;
  DTParams params;
  const cumlHandle &handle;
public:
  DecisionTreeClassifier(const cumlHandle &handle, DTParams& params, bool verbose=false);
  void fit(const T *input, int n_rows, int n_cols, const int *labels);
  void predict(const T *input, int n_rows, int n_cols, int *predictions);
};

void decisionTreeClassifierFit(const cumlHandle &handle, const float *input, int n_rows, int n_cols,
                               const int *labels, DecisionTreeClassifier<float> *model, DTParams params,
                               bool verbose=false);
void decisionTreeClassifierPredict(const cumlHandle &handle, const float* input,
                                   DecisionTreeClassifier<float> *model, int n_rows,
                                   int n_cols, int* predictions, bool verbose=false);
```

An alternative correct way to expose this could be:
```cpp
// NOTE: this example assumes that TreeNode and DTParams are the model/state that need to be stored
// and passed between fit and predict methods
template <typename T> struct TreeNode { /* nested tree-like data structure, but written as a POD! */ };
struct DTParams { /* hyper-params for building DT */ };
typedef TreeNode<float> TreeNodeF;
typedef TreeNode<double> TreeNodeD;

void decisionTreeClassifierFit(const cumlHandle &handle, const float *input, int n_rows, int n_cols,
                               const int *labels, TreeNodeF *&root, DTParams params,
                               bool verbose=false);
void decisionTreeClassifierPredict(const cumlHandle &handle, const double* input, int n_rows,
                                   int n_cols, const TreeNodeD *root, int* predictions,
                                   bool verbose=false);
```
The above example understates the complexity involved with exposing a tree-like data structure across the interface! However, this example should be simple enough to drive the point across.

### Other functions on state
These guidelines also mean that it is the responsibility of C++ API to expose methods to load and store (aka marshalling) such a data structure. Further continuing the Decision Tree Classifier example,  the following methods could achieve this:
```cpp
void storeTree(const TreeNodeF *root, std::ostream &os);
void storeTree(const TreeNodeD *root, std::ostream &os);
void loadTree(TreeNodeF *&root, std::istream &is);
void loadTree(TreeNodeD *&root, std::istream &is);
```
It is also worth noting that for algorithms such as the members of GLM, where models consist of an array of weights and are therefore easy to manipulate directly by the users, such custom load/store methods might not be explicitly needed.

### C API
Following the guidelines outlined above will ease the process of "C-wrapping" the C++ API. Refer to [DBSCAN](src/dbscan/dbscan_api.h) as an example on how to properly wrap the C++ API with a C-binding. In short:
1. Use only C compatible types or objects that can be passed as opaque handles (like `cumlHandle_t`).
2. Using templates is fine if those can be instantiated from a specialized C++ function with `extern "C"` linkage.
3. Expose custom create/load/store/destroy methods, if the model is more complex than an array of parameters (eg: Random Forest). One possible way of working with such exposed states from the C++ layer is shown in a sample repo [here](https://github.com/teju85/managing-state-cuml).

### Stateful C++ API
This scikit-learn-esq C++ API should always be a wrapper around the stateless C++ API, NEVER the other way around. The design discussion about the right way to expose such a wrapper around `libcuml++.so` is [still going on](https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/issues/456)  So, stay tuned for more details.

### File naming convention
1. An ML algorithm `<algo>` is to be contained inside the folder named `src/<algo>`.
2. `<algo>.hpp` and `<algo>.[cpp|cu]` contain C++ API declarations and definitions respectively.
3. `<algo>_api.h` and `<algo>_api.cpp` contain declarations and definitions respectively for C binding.

## Coding style

## Code format
### Introduction
cuML relies on `clang-format` to enforce code style across all C++ and CUDA source code. The coding style is based on the [Google style guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Formatting). The only digressions from this style are the following.
1. Do not split empty functions/records/namespaces.
2. Two-space indentation everywhere, including the line continuations.
3. Disable reflowing of comments.
The reasons behind these deviations from the Google style guide are given in comments [here](./.clang-format).

### How is the check done?
[run-clang-format.py](scripts/run-clang-format.py) is run first by `make`. This script runs clang-format only on modified files. An error is raised if the code diverges from the format suggested by clang-format, and the build fails.

### How to know the formatting violations?
When there are formatting errors, `run-clang-format.py` prints a `diff` command, showing where there are formatting differences. Unfortunately, unlike `flake8`, `clang-format` does NOT print descriptions of the violations, but instead directly formats the code. So, the only way currently to know why there are formatting differences is to run the diff command as suggested by this script against each violating source file.

### How to fix the formatting violations?
When there are formatting violations, `run-clang-format.py` prints an `-inplace` command you can use to automatically fix formatting errors. This is the easiest way to fix formatting errors. [This screencast](https://asciinema.org/a/248215) shows a typical build-fix-build cycle during cuML development.

### clang-format version?
To avoid spurious code style violations we specify the exact clang-format version required, currently `8.0.0`. This is enforced by a CMake check for the required version. [See here for more details on the dependencies](./README.md#dependencies).

## Error handling
Call CUDA APIs via the provided helper macros `CUDA_CHECK`, `CUBLAS_CHECK` and `CUSOLVER_CHECK`. These macros take care of checking the return values of the used API calls and generate an exception when the command is not successful. If you need to avoid an exception, e.g. inside a destructor, use `CUDA_CHECK_NO_THROW`, `CUBLAS_CHECK_NO_THROW ` and `CUSOLVER_CHECK_NO_THROW ` (currently not available, see https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/issues/229). These macros log the error but do not throw an exception.

## Logging
Add once https://github.com/rapidsai/cuml/issues/100 is addressed.

## Documentation
All external interfaces need to have a complete [doxygen](http://www.doxygen.nl) API documentation. This is also recommended for internal interfaces.

## Testing and Unit Testing
TODO: Add this

## Device and Host memory allocations
To enable `libcuml.so` users to control how memory for temporary data is allocated, allocate device memory using the allocator provided:
```cpp
template<typename T>
void foo(const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h, cudaStream_t stream, ... )
{
    T* temp_h = h.getDeviceAllocator()->allocate(n*sizeof(T), stream);
    ...
    h.getDeviceAllocator()->deallocate(temp_h, n*sizeof(T), stream);
}
```
The same rule applies to larger amounts of host heap memory:
```cpp
template<typename T>
void foo(const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h, cudaStream_t stream, ... )
{
    T* temp_h = h.getHostAllocator()->allocate(n*sizeof(T), stream);
    ...
    h.getHostAllocator()->deallocate(temp_h, n*sizeof(T), stream);
}
```
Small host memory heap allocations, e.g. as internally done by STL containers, are fine, e.g. an `std::vector` managing only a handful of integers.
Both the Host and the Device Allocators might allow asynchronous stream ordered allocation and deallocation. This can provide significant performance benefits so a stream always needs to be specified when allocating or deallocating (see [Asynchronous operations and stream ordering](#asynchronous-operations-and-stream-ordering)). `ML::deviceAllocator` returns pinned device memory on the current device, while `ML::hostAllocator` returns host memory. A user of cuML can write customized allocators and pass them into cuML. If a cuML user does not provide custom allocators default allocators will be used. For `ML::deviceAllocator` the default is to use `cudaMalloc`/`cudaFree`. For `ML::hostAllocator` the default is to use `cudaMallocHost`/`cudaFreeHost`.
There are two simple container classes compatible with the allocator interface `MLCommon::device_buffer` available in `ml-prims/src/common/device_buffer.hpp` and `MLCommon::host_buffer` available in `ml-prims/src/common/host_buffer.hpp`. These allow to follow the [RAII idiom](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resource_acquisition_is_initialization) to avoid resources leaks and enable exception safe code. These containers also allow asynchronous allocation and deallocation using the `resize` and `release` member functions:
```cpp
template<typename T>
void foo(const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h, ..., cudaStream_t stream )
{
    ...
    MLCommon::device_buffer<T> temp( h.getDeviceAllocator(), stream, 0 )
    
    temp.resize(n, stream);
    kernelA<<<grid, block, 0, stream>>>(..., temp.data(), ...);
    kernelB<<<grid, block, 0, stream>>>(..., temp.data(), ...);
    temp.release(stream);
}
```
The motivation for `MLCommon::host_buffer` and `MLCommon::device_buffer` over using `std::vector` or `thrust::device_vector` (which would require thrust 1.9.4 or later) is to enable exception safe asynchronous allocation and deallocation following stream semantics with an explicit interface while avoiding the overhead of implicitly initializing the underlying allocation.
To use `ML::hostAllocator` with a STL container the header `src/common/allocatorAdapter.hpp` provides `ML::stdAllocatorAdapter`:
```cpp
template<typename T>
void foo(const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h, ..., cudaStream_t stream )
{
    ...
    std::vector<T,ML::stdAllocatorAdapter<T> > temp( n, val, ML::stdAllocatorAdapter<T>(h.getHostAllocator(), stream) )
    ...
}
```
If thrust 1.9.4 or later is avaiable for use in cuML a similar allocator can be provided for `thrust::device_vector`.

### <a name="allocationsthrust"></a>Using Thrust
To ensure that thrust algorithms allocate temporary memory via the provided device memory allocator, use the `ML::thrustAllocatorAdapter` available in `src/common/allocatorAdapter.hpp` with the `thrust::cuda::par` execution policy:
```cpp
void foo(const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h, ..., cudaStream_t stream )
{
    ML::thrustAllocatorAdapter alloc( h.getDeviceAllocator(), stream );
    auto execution_policy = thrust::cuda::par(alloc).on(stream);
    thrust::for_each(execution_policy, ... );
}
```
The header `src/common/allocatorAdapter.hpp` also provides a helper function to create an execution policy:
```cpp
void foo(const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h, ... , cudaStream_t stream )
{
    auto execution_policy = ML::thrust_exec_policy(h.getDeviceAllocator(),stream);
    thrust::for_each(execution_policy->on(stream), ... );
}
```

## Asynchronous operations and stream ordering
All ML algorithms should be as asynchronous as possible avoiding the use of the default stream (aka as NULL or `0` stream). Implementations that require only one CUDA Stream should use the stream from `ML::cumlHandle_impl`:
```cpp
void foo(const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h, ...)
{
    cudaStream_t stream = h.getStream();
}
```
When multiple streams are needed, e.g. to manage a pipeline, use the internal streams available in `ML::cumlHandle_impl` (see [CUDA Resources](#cuda-resources)). If multiple streams are used all operations still must be ordered according to `ML::cumlHandle::getStream()`. Before any operation in any of the internal CUDA streams is started, all previous work in `ML::cumlHandle::getStream()` must have completed. Any work enqueued in `ML::cumlHandle::getStream()` after a cuML function returns should not start before all work enqueued in the internal streams has completed. E.g. if a cuML algorithm is called like this: 
```cpp
void foo(const double* const srcdata, double* const result)
{
    ML::cumlHandle cumlHandle;

    cudaStream_t stream;
    CUDA_RT_CALL( cudaStreamCreate( &stream ) );
    cumlHandle.setStream( stream );

    ...

    CUDA_CHECK( cudaMemcpyAsync( srcdata, h_srcdata.data(), n*sizeof(double), cudaMemcpyHostToDevice, stream ) );

    ML::algo(cumlHandle, dopredict, srcdata, result, ... );

    CUDA_CHECK( cudaMemcpyAsync( h_result.data(), result, m*sizeof(int), cudaMemcpyDeviceToHost, stream ) );

    ...
}
```
No work in any stream should start in `ML::algo` before the `cudaMemcpyAsync` in `stream` launched before the call to `ML::algo` is done. And all work in all streams used in `ML::algo` should be done before the `cudaMemcpyAsync` in `stream` launched after the call to `ML::algo` starts.

This can be ensured by introducing interstream dependencies with CUDA events and `cudaStreamWaitEvent`. For convenience, the header `cumlHandle.hpp` provides the class `ML::detail::streamSyncer` which lets all `ML::cumlHandle_impl` internal CUDA streams wait on `ML::cumlHandle::getStream()` in its constructor and in its destructor and lets `ML::cumlHandle::getStream()` wait on all work enqueued in the `ML::cumlHandle_impl` internal CUDA streams. The intended use would be to create a `ML::detail::streamSyncer` object as the first thing in a entry function of the public cuML API: 

```cpp
void cumlAlgo(const ML::cumlHandle& handle, ...)
{
    ML::detail::streamSyncer _(handle.getImpl());
}
```
This ensures the stream ordering behavior described above.

### Using Thrust
To ensure that thrust algorithms are executed in the intended stream the `thrust::cuda::par` execution policy should be used (see [Using Thrust](#allocationsthrust) in [Device and Host memory allocations](#device-and-host-memory-allocations)).

## CUDA Resources

Do not create reusable CUDA resources directly in implementations of ML algorithms. Instead, use the existing resources in `ML::cumlHandle_impl` to avoid constant creation and deletion of reusable resources such as CUDA streams, CUDA events or library handles. Please file a feature request if a resource handle is missing in `ML::cumlHandle_impl `.
The resources can be obtained like this
```cpp
void foo(const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h, ...)
{
    cublasHandle_t cublasHandle = h.getCublasHandle();
    const int num_streams       = h.getNumInternalStreams();
    const int stream_idx        = ...
    cudaStream_t stream         = h.getInternalStream(stream_idx);
    ...
}
```

### `ML::cumlHandle` and `ML::cumlHandle_impl`

The purpose of `ML::cumlHandle` is to be the public interface of cuML, i.e. it is meant to be used by developers using cuML in their application. This is differentiated from `ML::cumlHandle_impl` to avoid that the public interface of cuML depends on cuML internals, such as CUDA library handles, e.g. for cuBLAS. This is implemented via the "Pointer to implementation" or [pImpl](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/pimpl) idiom. From a `ML::cumlHandle` the implementation `ML::cumlHandle_impl` can be obtained by calling `ML::cumlHandle::getImpl()`. The implementation of cuML should use `ML::cumlHandle_impl` and not `ML::cumlHandle`. E.g. for the function `ml_algo` from the public cuML interface an implementation calling the internal functions `foo` and `bar` could look like this:

```cpp
void ml_algo(const ML::cumlHandle& handle, ...)
{
    const ML::cumlHandle_impl& h = handle.getImpl();
    ML::detail::streamSyncer _(h);
    ...
    foo(h, ...);
    ...
    bar(h, ...);
    ...
}
```

## Multi GPU

The multi GPU paradigm of cuML is **O**ne **P**rocess per **G**PU (OPG). Each algorithm should be implemented in a way that it can run with a single GPU without any dependencies to any communication library. A multi GPU implementation can assume the following:
* The user of cuML has initialized MPI and created a communicator that can be used by the ML algorithm.
* All processes in the MPI communicator call into the ML algorithm cooperatively.
* The used MPI is CUDA-aware, i.e. it is possible to directly pass device pointers to MPI
